Add tip on custom flags (#278)
abseil/abseil.github.io: _posts/2019-05-10-totw-98.md

---
title: "Tip of the Week #98: User-defined Flag Types and absl::Duration"
layout: tips
sidenav: side-nav-tips.html
published: true
permalink: tips/98
type: markdown
order: "098"
---

*by [Bradley White](mailto:bww@google.com)*

> NOTE: this tip contrasts legacy flags (of the form `DEFINE_flagname`)

Reviewer: legacy flags only exist as the package we open sourced a decade back (gflags)

with new-style Abseil flags of the form `ABSL_FLAG()`. The legacy forms
are now deprecated; as a result, some of this tip is historical in
nature, but the advice on using custom flags is current.)

*"Do you have a flag?" - Eddie Izzard.*

## Flags of User-Defined Types

> The Abseil Flags library now supports flags of user-defined types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Abseil Flags library supports flags of user-defined types in addition to the types supported out-of-the-box.
```

Previously a flag had to be one of the the fundamental types: `bool`,
`int32_t`, `int64_t`, `uint64_t`, `double`, `std::string`, where a flag
definition like ...

```c++
DEFINE_string(default_host, "www.google.com", "For requests with no host");
```

expands directly into the definition of a global variable: `FLAGS_default_host`,
of type `std::string`, with a default value of `"www.google.com"` and the given

> description. These flags are deprecated and people should now prefer the

Reviewer: I'm not sure we can say "deprecated" for an API in a project that we no longer maintain and has been forked ...

values specified on the command line. Indeed, `absl::Duration` has already been
adapted.

A safer replacement for `FLAGS_foo_timeout_sec` would be:

```c++
ABSL_FLAG(absl::Duration, foo_timeout, absl::Seconds(60),
          "How long to wait for foo to complete.");
```

Now all manipulation of `FLAGS_foo_timeout` happens through unit-safe operations
on `absl::Duration`, and the `_sec` suffix is no longer needed (or desirable).

```c++
absl::Duration timeout = absl::GetFlag(FLAGS_foo_timeout);
...
absl::SetFlag(&FLAGS_foo_timeout, absl::Milliseconds(500));
```

The command-line value can be specified using any format supported by
[`absl::ParseDuration()`][parse-duration].

For example:

```c++
$ my_app ... --foo_timeout=2m30s ...
```

## Conclusion

Consider using a flag of a user-defined type in cases where it is a clear gain
in readability and safety.

Flags specifying durations are an excellent example of where such a change would
be beneficial, and `ABSL_FLAG(absl::Duration, ...)` is already available for
your use. Remove legacy uses of ambiguous duration flags and the possibility of
error by migrating your own duration flags to the new style.

> [parse-duration]: https://github.com/abseil/abseil-cpp/blob/bf29470384a101b307873b26d358433138c857fc/absl/time/time.h#L527

Reviewer: Are we sure this is the link we want for this?
